# Comparative analysis of the pangenome of _Thermaceae_ and _Deinococcaceae_ families

## Final Master's thesis

## Author: Pablo Fernandez
## Director: Modesto Redrejo Rodríguez

The following defines the various code documents that were used as part of the project, as well as the data sets that were obtained during the project.

## Datasets

### Supplementary File 1
In this document, the annotation matrices corresponding to the data collected by Bakta and PPanGGolin are already merged for both _Thermaceae_ (SupplementaryFile1_1) and _Deinococcaceae_ (SupplementaryFile1_2) for better understanding.

### Supplementary File 3
This file contains the text documents output by CheckM, giving the completeness and contamination values for each genome among other parameters for each family.

### Supplementary File 4
Results of merging the general annotation matrices (Supplementary Files 1 and 2) with the KO identifiers associated with the KEGG database.

### Supplementary File 5
Presence-absence matrices generated by PPanGGolin. Matrices made up of binary values where the clusters obtained are represented against the total set of genomes, where the value 1 indicates the presence of the genome in the cluster, and the value 0 indicates its absence. For the family _Thermaceae_ (SupplementaryFile5_1_1) we also add the annotation of the two reference strains of the genus _Thermus_ , _T. Thermophilus HB27 and HB8_.

### Supplementary File 8.3 and 8.4
.csv files corresponding to the results obtained through SAPPHIRE where the sequences used are specified followed by their thermophilic value. Supplementary File 8.3 (_Thermaceae_) Supplementary File 8.4 (_Deinococcaceae_)


## Scripts

### Supplementary File 2
This script uses the functionalities of Bakta to detect the 16s rRNA genes of the different genomes and set a minimum threshold of base pairs for these genes. Finally, the contamination of the samples is analyzed using one of the functionalities of the Biopython package.

### Supplementary File 5.1.2
This document explains how to merge the presence-absence matrix provided by PPanGGolin with the annotation of the reference genomes obtained from GenBank.

### Supplementary File 6
The following code makes use of the general annotation matrices (Supplementary File 1) to carry out a representation of the genomes of both families according to the genome type imposed by PPanGGolin. Associated to **Fig. 2** of the article

### Supplementary File 7
Graphical representation of the genomes based on the Supplementary File 4 annotation. Associated to **Fig. 4A** of the article

### Supplementary File 8
The results obtained by SAPPHIRE are used and represented through a barplot. Associated to **Fig 5.** of the article.
